Let's look at JSON in a little bit more detail now, shall we?
Firstly, JSON itself is a standard.
It's defined by RFC 4627.
Being a standard is really good because it means you can have a strong
expectation of compatibility between different systems that use JSON.
You know that JSON produced by your Java server can
be read by a JavaScript website,
or maybe even another server written in Python or C++.
The JSON itself is representing an object tree.
It's just as fun as a Christmas tree, but a lot more useful.
So just like a plain Java object, it can reference other objects,
and those are children within its structure.
It also means that each JSON object maps nicely to a Java object.
You don't have a problem that interacting with something like SQL does
where there's an object relational impedance mismatch.
It's usually pretty obvious and pretty simple to map types and
concepts between JSON and your Java code.
Now, enough of this theory.
It's time to see some JSON in action.
I'm going to live code a simple JSON document that will
represent an application for a bank loan and we'll see the
structure of that JSON formatted document.
That will help you understand the syntax and style of what we'll be
producing with Java code in the upcoming modules.
It's also helpful to know from a testing and debugging perspective
that you can just handcraft and edit a JSON document even if
they're normally produced by your code.
To begin with,
let's take a look at the different kinds of information that we
would like to encode in our example JSON object,
which is going to be a request for a bank loan.
The first thing we want to have is the bank loan's customer name,
so, the name of the customer who will be applying for this bank loan.
Then there might be some information about the purpose of the loan.
What's it going to be used for?
Then we want to have a series of details about the
financial matters of the loan itself.
These details will include the amount of money the loan is going to
require and the start and end dates of the loan.
Finally, we have the job section,
which will be a list of different jobs or sources of income.
So for each job, we need to know what the title is of that job,
how much money it's making, it's income,
and finally the number of years that the person has
worked actively at that role.
Now we're going to create this bank loan document in a file to begin with.
Often you don't manually edit JSON and put them in files anyway,
but if you do happen to have JSON in a file,
the.
json extension is often the standard extension to use.
And this is going to encode all the information about our bank loan.
Every JSON object starts with a pair of braces,
little squiggly braces just like a Java method.
And that's just a syntactic delimiter.
Within those braces lie the fields themselves.
So each field has a name.
And here, our first field is going to be the name of the customer.
So the name name is double quoted and then there's a
colon and then there's the value.
So the name of the person who's applying for this loan is Mrs Joan Smith.
At the end of the name value pair,
we will put a little comma in order to separate that from
the next field in the JSON document.
And the next field here is the purpose of the loan.
And in Mrs Joan Smith's case,
the purpose of the loan is to build an extension on
a house that she already owns.
Again, this one also has a comma at the end.
Now,
both of the two fields that we have seen already have been
fields where the values are strings.
And as we're going to see with our loanDetails field,
that's not necessarily the case.
We could have a field whose value itself is another
JSON object nested within it.
In order to do that,
our JSON object has those squiggly braces again at the
beginning and end of the object, so just like the parent,
and follows the same syntactic rules as a parent JSON object would do.
It just happens to be nested within the parent.
Our loanDetails object has a few different fields.
Firstly, the amount of money the people want to borrow,
$10000, and then there are these startDate and endDate.
So it's going to start at the beginning of 2018 and we're going to end
the loan or it'll be paid off by the start of 2023,
so 5 years later.
What's interesting here is that whilst we've seen strings
as being the predominant encoding types,
we can actually also use numbers here.
So we're going to make that $10000 a string,
but it's really a number, so why not use a number.
JSON supports numbers, both integer and floating point,
and you can just directly write them as values.
It's one of the primitive types of the data encoding.
Another thing that you can also use as a JSON value is null.
Now we're going to try and avoid it as much as possible in this course,
but null is used as a way of representing a field that could be there,
but perhaps is missing for some reason or another.
Just in the same way as you would use null in Java.
Now we've seen strings, we've seen numbers,
we've seen JSON objects, we've seen null,
but the final type of value that we're going to see to be
used in a JSON object field is an array.
We have our list of jobs,
so we need to have a way of representing multiple different jobs that this
person could be doing because people do multiple jobs.
Joan, in fact, does multiple jobs.
And here we're going to use the array syntax beginning and ending
with square braces in order to represent those jobs.
To begin with,
let's just write out the titles for each of the jobs that Joan does
because it's perfectly valid to write a string object within a JSON
field or within a JSON array here.
So Joan has a freelance development role,
so she does some self-employed development work,
she's got a part-time job as an employee at a company,
and she also has some income as a Pluralsight author of one of our courses here.
Admittedly, Joan Smith is really not a real person,
but let's carry on going with this pretense.
that contains strings,
but we use it to show the different forms of information that
our job's spec has within the document.
So for example, here, we're going to have the title,
the annualIncome, and the years that Joan is active.
So for her freelance developer role,
she had an annual income of 18000 pounds a year and she was active for 3 years.
What's really,
really important to recognize here is that you can just carry
on nesting these objects within an array.
So, again, we can have a second JSON object for her part-time developer role.
So $40000 a year and here we're going to have 8 years active.
It's really nice the way these JSON objects compose because they compose
arbitrary so you can have an object that contains an array,
that contains objects,
and one of those could contain another array that will store as an object.
We can have an object in an object in an object in an object.
It just depends upon how you want to model your data, the types or compose.
So just to recap, we can have fields with names.
Those fields could have values which are strings.
They can have values which are JSON objects.
They can have values which are JSON arrays,
and also they can have values which are numbers as well.
Within those JSON arrays,
you can have any of the aforementioned type including other JSON objects. Fantastic!